---
title: ASP.NET Tip - Use The Label Control Correctly
tags: [tips,aspnet]
redirect_from: "/archive/2007/02/14/asp.net_tip_-_use_the_label_control_correctly.aspx/"
---

[Scott Watermasysk](http://scottwater.com/ "Scott Watermasysk") has a
great set of [Quick Tips for
ASP.NET](http://feeds.scottwater.com/~r/scottwater/~3/91219373/ "Quick Tips For ASP.NET Part 1")
on his blog. And this is only part one! I’m Looking forward to seeing
the subsequent posts of this series.

However, I disagree slightly with his tip to *Never use the ASP.NET
`Label` control*. I would rephrase it to:

**Never use the ASP.NET `Label` control when a `Literal` would do**.

The problem is not the `Label` control. The problem is treating the
`Label` control as if it was merely a `Literal` control.

The `Label` control has a specific usage, to be a label for a form
input. For example, check out this screenshot of a text label and
textbox.

![Textbox control and
label](https://haacked.com/assets/images/haacked_com/WindowsLiveWriter/UseTheLabelControlCorrectly_B044/TextBoxAndLabel_thumb2.png)

Let’s look at one way to create this simple form using a `Literal`
control (*Notice I’m getting the value from a Resource file because we
all want to be internationally friendly, right? But it also points out
why I use an actual control rather than just typing the label
directly*).

```csharp
<asp:Literal id="label" Text="<%$ Resources:UserName %>"   runat="server" /> <asp:TextBox id="textbox" runat="server"/>
```

When you click on the word *Username* what happens? Nothing. **Wouldn’t
it be nice if the Textbox next to the literal was given focus?** Here’s
how:

```csharp
<asp:Label id="label" AssociatedControlId="textbox"     Text="Username" runat="server" /> <asp:TextBox id="textbox" runat="server" />
```

Now, we’ve associated the label to the control. The underlying HTML
looks something like (simplified for the sake of discussion):

```csharp
<label for="textbox">Username</label> <input type="textbox" name="textbox" value="" />
```

This associates the label *Username* with the textbox control, so when
you click on label, the textbox gets focus.

So why use the `Label` server control here? **Why not just use the
\<label /\> html tag directly?**

Because you might not know at compile time what the client id of the
TextBox will actually end up as. What if these two controls were inside
a UserControl inside a page? The ID might get a bit funky as its nested
in a control within a control.

