---
title: Subtext 2.1 Released! Contains Security Update
date: 2008-11-27 -0800 9:00 AM
tags: [subtext]
redirect_from: "/archive/2008/11/26/subtext-2.1-security-update.aspx/"
---

A Subtext user found a security flaw which opens up Subtext to potential
XSS attacks via comment. This flaw was introduced in Subtext 2.0 by the
feature which converts URLs to anchor tags. If you are still on 1.9.5b
or before, you are not affected by this issue. If you upgraded to 2.0,
then please update to 2.1 as soon as you can.

Note that you can edit comments in the admin section of your blog to fix
comments if someone attempts to abuse your comments.

This release has several other bug fixes and usability improvements as
well. I started to replace the use of `UpdatePanel` in some areas with
straight up jQuery, which ends up reducing bandwidth usage.

List of bug fixes and changes:
------------------------------

-   Fixed Medium Trust issue by removing calls to
    `UrlAuthorizationModule.CheckUrlAccessForPrincipal` which is not
    allowed from medium trust.
-   Removed email address from RSS feed by default and added Web.config
    setting to change this in order to protect against spamming.
-   Upgraded Jayrock assembly to fix the issue with
    VerificationException being thrown.
-   Fixed code which strips HTML from comments when displaying recent
    comments. Certain cases would cause CPU spike.
-   Fixed Remember Me functionality for the OpenID login.
-   Fixed a bug with adding categories in which an error was displayed,
    even though the category was added correctly.
-   Fixed a bug in the code to convert URLs to anchor tags.
-   Upgraded jQuery to version 1.2.6
-   Improved the timezone selection UI with jQuery

I was the one who implemented the feature at fault. Unfortunately the
way the feature was written made it such that it reversed earlier
scrubbing of the HTML due to a mistake in how I used
[SgmlReader](http://wiki.developer.mindtouch.com/SgmlReader "SgmlReader").
I apologize for the mistake. It won’t happen again.

Many thanks go out to [Adrian
Bateman](http://adrianba.net/ "Adrianba.net") for pointing out the bug
and the fix.

Notes for new installations
---------------------------

The install package includes a default *Subtext2.1.mdf* file for SQL
2005 Express. If you plan to run your blog off of SQL Server Express,
installation is as easy as copying the install files to your Web Root.
If you’re not using SQL Express, but plan to use SQL Server 2005, you
can attach to the supplied .mdf file and use it as your database.

Notes for upgrading
-------------------

In the *app\_data* folder of the install package, feel free to delete
the database files there. They only apply to new installs. Subtext 2.1
does not have any schema changes, so upgrading should be smooth.

Full upgrade instructions are on the [Subtext project
website](http://www.subtextproject.com/Home/About/Docs/Upgrading/tabid/147/Default.aspx).

**[Download it
here](https://sourceforge.net/project/showfiles.php?group_id=137896&package_id=181920&release_id=643458 "Download Subtext 2.1")**.
Note that the file **Subtext-2.1.0.5.zip** is the one you want to use to
upgrade your site. The other file contains the source in case you want
to build the solution.

