---
title: ASP.NET MVC Update
tags: [aspnet,aspnetmvc]
redirect_from: "/archive/2008/02/11/asp.net-mvc-update.aspx/"
---

By the way my blogging frequency has declined, you can guess I’ve been
quite busy here at Microsoft preparing for the next release of ASP.NET
MVC.

It’s not just working on specs, design meetings, etc... that keep me
busy. It’s preparing for several talks, various spec reviews, building
hands on labs, demo and and app building, etc...that keeps me busy. All
the while I am still learning the ropes and dealing with selling a house
in L.A. and buying a house up here. There’s a lot that goes into being a
PM I naively didn’t expect, on top of just how much work goes into
simply moving.

Not that I’m complaining. It’s still a lot of fun.
[ScottGu](http://weblogs.asp.net/scottgu/ "Scott Guthrie") posted an
[entry on his
blog](http://weblogs.asp.net/scottgu/archive/2008/02/12/asp-net-mvc-framework-road-map-update.aspx "ASP.NET MVC Roadmap")
about the fun we’re having in preparing for the upcoming ASP.NET MVC Mix
Preview.

Here’s a screenshot that shows a tooling feature I’m particularly
excited about.

![Unit Testing
Frameworks](https://haacked.com/assets/images/haacked_com/WindowsLiveWriter/ASP.NETMVCUpdate_C69C/UnitTestingFrameworks_3.png)

I’ve written about the challenges Microsoft faces with bundling [Open
Source
software](https://haacked.com/archive/2007/09/04/should-microsoft-really-bundle-open-source-software.aspx "Should Microsoft Bundle Open Source Software")
in the past and what I thought they should do about it...

> What I would have liked to have seen is for Team System to provide
> extensibility points which make it extremely easy to swap out MS Test
> for another testing framework. MS Test isn’t the money maker for
> Microsoft, it’s the whole integrated suite that brings in the moolah,
> so being able to replace it doesn’t hurt the bottom line.

What we have here is similar in spirit to what I hoped for. AFAIK it is
not going to be *integrated* to the level that Visual Studio Team Test
is integrated, but it also won’t require VSTS. This is a feature of the
ASP.NET MVC project template.

I’m also excited about some of the community feedback we were able to
incorporate such as removing the `ControllerActionAttribute` among other
things. A hat or two might be eaten over that one ;).

In any case, there are still some areas I’m not yet happy with (there
always will be, won’t there?), so we are not done by any measure. I’ll
reserve talking about that until after Mix when you have the code in
your hands and can follow along.

