---
title: ASP.NET MVC on IIS 6 Walkthrough
tags: [aspnetmvc,aspnet]
redirect_from: "/archive/2008/11/25/asp.net-mvc-on-iis-6-walkthrough.aspx/"
---

UPDATE: If you run ASP.NET MVC on IIS 6 with *ASP.NET 4*, setting up
extensionless URLs [just got
easier](https://haacked.com/archive/2010/12/22/asp-net-mvc-3-extensionless-urls-on-iis-6.aspx "IIS 6 and ASP.NET MVC on ASP.NET 4").
In most cases, it should just work.

I’ve seen a lot of reports where people have trouble getting [ASP.NET
MVC](http://asp.net/mvc "ASP.NET MVC Website") up and running on IIS 6.
Sometimes the problem is a very minor misconfiguration, sometimes it’s a
misunderstanding of how IIS 6 works.

In this post, I want to provide a definitive guide to getting ASP.NET
MVC running on IIS 6. I will walk through using the *.mvc*or *.aspx*
file extension for URLs first, then I will walkthrough using
extension-less URLs.

If you’re running into problems with IIS 6 and ASP.NET MVC, I recommend
trying to walk through all the steps in this post, even if you’re not
interested in using the *.mvc*or*.aspx* mapping. Some of the lessons
learned here have more to do with how ASP.NET itself works with IIS 6
than anything specific to ASP.NET MVC.

Initial Setup
-------------

To make this easy, start Visual Studio and create a new *ASP.NET MVC Web
Application Project*on the machine with IIS 6. If your IIS 6 machine is
on a different machine, you can skip this step. We can deploy the site
to the machine later.

After you create the project, right click the project and select
*Properties*. The project properties editor will open up. Select the
*Web* tab and select *Use IIS Web Server.*Click on the image for a full
size view.

[![Project Properties
Editor](https://haacked.com/assets/images/haacked_com/WindowsLiveWriter/07de283cb368_B754/01-project-properties_thumb_1.png "Project Properties Editor")](https://haacked.com/assets/images/haacked_com/WindowsLiveWriter/07de283cb368_B754/01-project-properties_4.png)

In the project URL, I gave it a virtual application name of
*Iis6DemoWeb* and then checked *Create Virtual Directory*. A dialog box
should appear and you should now have an IIS virtual application (note
this is different than a virtual directory, as indicated by the gear
looking icon) under your Default Web Site.

![IIS 6 Virtual Web
Application](https://haacked.com/assets/images/haacked_com/WindowsLiveWriter/07de283cb368_B754/02-iis6demoweb-iis_5.png "IIS 6 Virtual Web Application")

Using a URL File Extensions
---------------------------

When you run the ASP.NET MVC installer, it will set up an ISAPI mapping
in IIS 6 to map the *.mvc* extension to the *aspnet\_isapi.dll*. This is
necessary in order for IIS to hand off requests using the *.mvc* file
extension to ASP.NET.

If you’re planning to use extension-less URLs, you can skip this
section, but it may be useful to read anyways as it has some information
you’ll need to know when setting up extension-less URLs.

### Mapping .mvc to ASP.NET

If you plan to use the *.mvc* URL extension, and are going to deploy to
IIS 6 on a machine that does not have ASP.NET MVC installed, you’ll need
to create this mapping by performing the following steps.

One nice benefit of using the *.aspx* extension instead of *.mvc* is
that you don’t have to worry about mapping the *.aspx* extension. It
should already be mapped assuming you have ASP.NET installed properly on
the machine.

For the rest of you, start by right clicking on the *Virtual
Application* node (*IIS6DemoWeb* in this case) and select *Properties*.
You should see the following dialog.

![Website
Properties](https://haacked.com/assets/images/haacked_com/WindowsLiveWriter/07de283cb368_B754/virtual-directory-tab_3.png "Website Properties")

Make sure you’re on the *Virtual Directory* tab and select
*Configuration*. Note that you can also choose to make this change on
the root website, in which case the tab you’re looking for is *Home
Directory* not *Virtual Directory*.

This will bring up the *Application Configuration* dialog which displays
a list of ISAPI mappings. Scroll down to see if .mvc is in the list.

![application
mappings](https://haacked.com/assets/images/haacked_com/WindowsLiveWriter/07de283cb368_B754/application-mappings_3.png "application mappings")

In the screenshot, you can see that *.mvc* is in the list. If it is in
the list on your machine, you can skip ahead to the next section. If
it’s not in the list for you, let’s add it to the list. You’re going to
need to know the path to the aspnet\_isapi.dll first. On my machine, it
is:

**c:\\windows\\microsoft.net\\framework\\v2.0.50727\\aspnet\_isapi.dll**

It might differ on your machine. One easy way to find out is to find the
.aspx extension in the list and double click it to bring up the mapping
dialog.

![extension
mapping](https://haacked.com/assets/images/haacked_com/WindowsLiveWriter/07de283cb368_B754/08-extension-mapping_3.png "extension mapping")

Now you can copy the path in the *Executable* text box to your
clipboard. This is the path you’ll want to map .mvc to.

Click Cancel to go back to the *Application Configuration* dialog and
then click *Add*which will bring up an empty *Add/Edit Application
Extension Mapping dialog*.

Fill in the fields with the exact same values as you saw for .aspx,
except the extension should be “*.mvc*” without the quotes. Click *OK*
and you’re done with the mapping.

Specifying Routes with an Extension
-----------------------------------

Before we run the application, we need to update the default routes to
look for the file extension we chose, whether it be *.mvc* or *.aspx*
extension. Here is the `RegisterRoutes` method in my *Global.asax.cs*
file using the *.mvc* extension. If you want to use the
*.aspx*extension, just replace `{controller}.mvc` with
`{controller}.aspx`.

```csharp
public static void RegisterRoutes(RouteCollection routes)
{
  routes.IgnoreRoute("{resource}.axd/{*pathInfo}");

  routes.MapRoute(
    "Default",
    "{controller}.mvc/{action}/{id}",
    new { action = "Index", id = "" }
  );

  routes.MapRoute(
    "Root",
    "",
    new { controller = "Home", action = "Index", id = "" }
  );
}
```

Note that because the second route, “Default”, has a literal extension
as part of the URL segment, it cannot match a request for the
application root. That’s why I have a third route named “Root” which can
match requests for the application root.

Now, I can hit CTRL+F5 (or browse my website) and I should see the
following home page.

![Home
Page](https://haacked.com/assets/images/haacked_com/WindowsLiveWriter/07de283cb368_B754/03-home-page_3.png "Home Page")

And about page.

![About
Page](https://haacked.com/assets/images/haacked_com/WindowsLiveWriter/07de283cb368_B754/04-about-page_3.png "About Page")

Notice that the URLs contain the *.mvc* extension.

### Uh oh, Houston! We have a problem

Of course, you’re going to want to be able to navigate to the web root
for your project. Notice what happens when you navigate to
*/Iis6DemoWeb*.

![Root Home
Page](https://haacked.com/assets/images/haacked_com/WindowsLiveWriter/07de283cb368_B754/05-home-page_3.png "Root Home Page")

This is a bug in the *Default.aspx.cs* file included with our default
template which I discovered as I was writing this walkthrough. We’ll fix
it right away, but I can provide the fix here as it’s insanely easy.

*Note: If you received a File Not Found error when visiting the root,
then you might not have Default.aspx mapped as a default document.
[Follow these
steps](http://www.microsoft.com/technet/prodtechnol/WindowsServer2003/Library/IIS/dc6eb1b4-9028-4308-9935-52b64edfad36.mspx?mfr=true "Setting up Default Documents")
to add Default.aspx as a default document.*

As [I’ve written
before](https://haacked.com/archive/2008/04/10/upcoming-changes-in-routing.aspx "Routing Changes"),
this file is necessary for IIS 6, IIS 7 Classic Mode, and pre SP1
Cassini, but not IIS 7 Integrated. So if you’re using Cassini with
Visual Studio 2008 SP1 and deploying to IIS 7 Integrated, you can delete
*Default.aspx* and its sub-files.

In the meanwhile, the fix is to make the following change.

Change:

```csharp
HttpContext.Current.RewritePath(Request.ApplicationPath);
```

To

```csharp
HttpContext.Current.RewritePath(Request.ApplicationPath, false);
```

If you created your website in the IIS root rather than a virtual
application, you would never have noticed this issue. But in the virtual
application, the URL to the stylesheet rendered contained the virtual
application name, when it shouldn’t. Changing the second argument to
false fixes this.

IIS6 Extension-less URLs
------------------------

Ok, now we’re ready to try this with extension-less URLs using the
infamous “Star mapping” or “[Wildcard
mapping](http://www.microsoft.com/technet/prodtechnol/WindowsServer2003/Library/IIS/5c5ae5e0-f4f9-44b0-a743-f4c3a5ff68ec.mspx?mfr=true "Wildcard Mapping on Technet")”
feature of IIS 6. I say infamous because there is a lot of concern over
the performance implications of doing this. Of course, you should
measure the performance of your site for yourself to determine if it is
really a problem.

The first step is to go back to the *Application Configuration
Properties* dialog like we did when configuring the *.mvc* ISAPI mapping
(*see, I told you that information might come in useful later*).

![application
mappings](https://haacked.com/assets/images/haacked_com/WindowsLiveWriter/07de283cb368_B754/application-mappings_3.png "application mappings")

Next to the *Wildcard application maps* section, click the *Insert…*
button.

![wildcard extension
mapping](https://haacked.com/assets/images/haacked_com/WindowsLiveWriter/07de283cb368_B754/09-wildcard-extension-mapping_3.png "wildcard extension mapping")

This brings up the wildcard application mapping dialog. Enter the path
to the *aspnet\_isapi.dll*. You can follow the trick we mentioned
earlier for getting this path.

**Don’t forget to uncheck the *Verify that file exists* checkbox!** This
is one of the most common mistakes people make.

If you’ve been following along everything in this post, you’ll need to
go back and reset the routes in your *Global.asax.cs* file to the
default routes. You no longer need the *.mvc* file extension in the
routes. At this point, you can also remove *Default.aspx* if you’d like.
It’s not needed.

Now when you browse your site, your URLs will not have a file extension
as you can see in the following screenshots.

![Home page without
extension](https://haacked.com/assets/images/haacked_com/WindowsLiveWriter/07de283cb368_B754/11-extensionless-url_3.png "Home page without extension")

[![About page without
extension](https://haacked.com/assets/images/haacked_com/WindowsLiveWriter/07de283cb368_B754/10-extensionless-about-page_thumb_1.png "About page without extension")](https://haacked.com/assets/images/haacked_com/WindowsLiveWriter/07de283cb368_B754/10-extensionless-about-page_5.png)

 

Final Tips
----------

One thing to understand is that an ASP.NET project is scoped to the
Website or Virtual Application in which it resides. For example, in the
example I have here, we pointed a Virtual Application named
*IIS6DemoWeb* to the directory containing my ASP.NET MVC web
application.

Thus, only requests for that virtual application will be handled by my
web application. I cannot make a request for *http://localhost/* in this
case and expect it to be handled by my application. Nor can I expect
routing in this application to handle requests for another root
directory such as *http://localhost/not-my-app/*.

This might seem like an obvious thing to say, but I know it trips some
people up. Also, in the example I did here, I used a virtual application
for demonstration purposes. It’s very easy to point a root Website in
IIS to my application and run it in http://localhost/ rather than a
virtual application. This is not a problem. I hope you found this
helpful.

