---
title: Subtext 2.0 Released
date: 2008-08-10 -0800
disqus_identifier: 18518
categories:
- personal
redirect_from: "/archive/2008/08/09/subtext-2.0-released.aspx/"
---

It’s been a long time coming, but we are finally ready to release
Subtext 2.0. As I [mentioned in
April](https://haacked.com/archive/2008/04/08/subtext-awakens-from-its-slumber.aspx "Subtext Awakens From Its Slumber")
(was it that long ago!?), this is scaled down a bit from our original
2.0 plans. But even so, we have a lot of new goodness in here. It’s not
just a bug fix release, though there are plenty of those too.

### Highlights

With this release, Subtext has top notch support for Windows Live Writer
thanks to some [check-ins from Tim
Heuer](http://www.timheuer.com/blog/archive/2008/06/25/first-contribution-made-to-open-source-subtext.aspx "My First OSS contribution").

-   Enhanced MetaWeblog API implementation to support providing a "slug"
    URL name for the post.  This gives the user the option to use the
    default URL naming, the "auto-friendly" or now to override that with
    your own slug name.
-   Fixed a bug in the SiteMap handler for blogs not hosted at root
    domains.  Would love people to test this out.
-   Added support for WordPress API functions of: newPage, editPage,
    getPages, newCategory
-   Simple modification to the Windows Live Writer manifest to prevent
    those who think they can future post :-)
-   Tag-based RSS syndicator

### Other highlights

-   New CSS-Based Admin Design That Makes Better Use of Space
-   Ability to set a separate skin for mobile devices
-   Streamlined Installation Process. I tried to remove unnecessary
    steps and make this more robust.
-   Support for Enclosures (See [Simo’s great post on
    this](http://codeclimber.net.nz/archive/2008/08/08/new-feature-in-subtext-2.0-enclosures.aspx "Subtext 2.0 enclosures")
    for more details)
-   CSS and JS optimizations ([Simo has more interesting details on
    this](http://codeclimber.net.nz/archive/2008/08/09/new-feature-in-subtext-2.0-css-and-js-optimization.aspx "CSS and JS optimizations")).
-   Setting a date in the future for publishing posts (again, [Simo has
    more
    details](http://codeclimber.net.nz/archive/2008/08/10/new-feature-in-subtext-2.0-publish-in-the-future.aspx "Publishing in the future")).
-   Login to your blog using OpenID, as well as use your blog as an
    OpenId Delegate

### Notes for new installations

The install package includes a default *Subtext2.0.mdf* file for SQL
2005. If you plan to run your blog off of SQL Express, installation is
as easy as copying the install files to your webroot. If you’re not
using SQL Express, but plan to use SQL Server 2005, you can attach to
the supplied .mdf file and use it as your database.

### Notes for upgrading

In the app\_data folder of the install package, feel free to delete the
database files there. They only apply to new installs.

We also include a zip file with just the SQL upgrade scripts. This is
sometimes useful for those who run into problems with the upgrade
procedure.

Full upgrade notes are on the [Subtext project
website](http://www.subtextproject.com/Home/About/Docs/Upgrading/tabid/147/Default.aspx "Upgrading Subtext").

### So what’s next for Subtext?

The Subtext team is fired up to get their feet wet using ASP.NET MVC,
and I can’t blame them. So at this point, we’re starting preliminary
planning work for Subtext 3.0, the next major version of Subtext which
will be a ground-up rewrite pulling in as much code from 2.0 along the
way of course.

But that doesn’t mean we’re abandoning the 2.0 line immediately. I would
expect to see several small incremental releases of the 2.\* line even
as we start on 3.0 with fires lit under our butts. Subtext 3.0 is in the
very early stages of planning taking a long term look into the future.

After all, there’s still a lot of infrastructure decisions to be made,
as well as requirements gathering. In what ways do we want to be just
like Subtext 2.0? In what ways do we want to completely change the
architecture?

Some of the decisions we need to make, just as a start:

1.  Where do we host? Do we stick with SourceForge or go elsewhere?
2.  What data access layer/ORM tooling should we use?
3.  What DI framework do we choose?
4.  What do we use for communication and documentation?
5.  What should our database design look like?
6.  Should we change how we [handle
    multi-tenancy](http://www.ayende.com/Blog/archive/2008/08/06/Multi-Tenancy.aspx "Multi-tenancy")?

In any case, it’s been a fun ride so far, and I hope we can keep our
momentum going in producing a great blogging platform for ASP.NET.

And before I forget, here’s the **[download page
link](https://sourceforge.net/project/showfiles.php?group_id=137896 "Download Subtext 2.0")**.

Tags: [subtext](http://technorati.com/tags/subtext/ "subtext tag")

