---
layout: post
title: "Response.Redirect vs Server.Transfer"
date: 2004-10-05 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 1308
categories: [code]
---
When conducting phone interviews, I like to ask a few technical
questions just to make sure that a candidate isn’t trying to blow smoke
up my... well we don’t need to be overly illustrative do we?

I absolutely do not intend the questions to be nitpicky. Nor do I feel
they are totally representative of an interviewee’s depth of knowledge.
I save the probing questions for an in-person interview.

However, if a candidate claims to have one or two years experience
working with ASP.NET, there are some basic facts and principles that a
mid-level developer should know.

For example, **please compare and contrast the result when calling
Response.Redirect and Server.Transfer from within a Page class**. It
boggles my mind that most candidates I talked to couldn’t answer this
question. These methods are used quite commonly and the differences are
important.

Sure they both present the user with the contents of a new page. But how
they do it has ramifications for you web app. With a call to
Response.Redirect, the server basically sends an HTTP header back to the
client browser with an HTTP status code stating that the object has
moved along with the new location to find it.

See the snippet of an example HTTP header below when
`Response.Redirect("somewhere/newlocation.aspx")` is called.

>     HTTP/1.1 302 Object movedServer: Microsoft-IIS/5.0Location: somewhere/newlocation.aspx

This tells the browser that the requested resource (page) can be found
at a new location, namely somewhere/newlocation.aspx. The browser then
initiates another request (assuming it supports redirects) to
*somewhere/newlocation.aspx* loading its contents in the browser. This
results in two requests by the browser.

One ramification of this is that if the initial request was a form POST,
the posted form fields are not available in the second request. Likewise
query string parameters are unavailable unless the page that issues the
redirect explicitly tacks them on. Also, since the browser initiates the
second request, it is possible to redirect to a page on an external
site.

In contrast, Server.Transfer transfers execution from the first page to
the second page on the server. As far as the browser client is
concerned, it made one request and the initial page is the one
responding with content (this point often confuses new ASP.NET
developers as the browser still shows the URL of the initial page even
though the content is generated by the second page. It all makes sense
when you understand what is happening.).

The benefit of this approach is one less round trip to the server from
the client browser. Also, any posted form variables and query string
parameters are available to the second page as well (however these can
be cleared by passing in false for the second parameter).

One thing to be aware of is that if the first page wrote something to
the Response buffer and you don’t clear it, then any output from the
second page will be appended to the output of the first. This is often
the cause of a weird behavior where it seems that a page is returning
two different pages. Also, since the transfer happens on the server, you
cannot transfer a request to an external site.

You’ve been warned. Make sure you wow that next interviewer with your
knowledge of ASP.NET.

For extra points, explain how ASP.NET sometimes returns a "View State Is
Invalid" error message when you call Server.Transfer("URL", true). The
explanation [is
here](http://support.microsoft.com/default.aspx?id=kb;en-us;Q316920).

Also, note that the "Response" and "Server" objects I refer to are
properties of the
[System.Web.UI.Page](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/default.asp?url=/library/en-us/cpref/html/frlrfsystemwebuipageclasstopic.asp)
class. The types for these objects are
[System.Web.HttpRequest](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/default.asp?url=/library/en-us/cpref/html/frlrfsystemwebhttprequestclasstopic.asp)
and
[System.Web.HttpServerUtility](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/default.asp?url=/library/en-us/cpref/html/frlrfsystemwebhttpserverutilityclasstopic.asp)
respectively.

If you like understanding how things work under the hood, I highly
recommend Fritz Onion’s book, [Essential ASP.NET
2.0](http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0321237706?ie=UTF8&tag=youvebeenhaac-20&linkCode=as2&camp=1789&creative=9325&creativeASIN=0321237706 "Essential ASP.NET").
It is personally my favorite book on ASP.NET as it covers only what is
essential, but at a deep enough level to really get something out of it.

His 2.0 book is actually a continuation on his 1.0 book, [Essential
ASP.NET With Examples in
C\#](http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0201760401?ie=UTF8&tag=youvebeenhaac-20&linkCode=as2&camp=1789&creative=9325&creativeASIN=0201760401 "ASP.NET 1.0 book").

