---
layout: post
title: "A haackedy 2015"
date: 2015-12-31 -0800
comments: true
categories: [personal]
---

I planned to skip the tried and true _year in review_ post because who reads
such drivel anyways, amirite? They feel like one big exercise in vanity.

But it dawned on me. Perhaps, I lost touch with what blogging was all about.
What it's _always_ been all about. Hasn't it always been one big unabashed and
[unashamed exercise in vanity](http://haacked.com/archive/2004/10/08/bloggingispurevanity.aspx/)?

Though writers better than me tend to couch it as something that sounds more
virtuous with words like "write for yourself" and such while they smirk awash
in the glow of their laptop screen with a giant glamour shot of themselves on
the wall.

So, um, yeah. I write for myself. But when others than your close friends and
family (well, my family long since stopped reading it) start to read it, it's
easy to lose sight of that fact. Also, I'm on a train to Portland and I don't
really have anything much better to do.

So on that note, here it is, my look back at 2015.

## Highlights

### [.NET on the Fringe](http://haacked.com/archive/2015/03/10/dotnetfringe/)

I helped organize this conference and had the pleasure to deliver the closing
talk about a topic near and dear to me. The conference had a great infectious
energy and many people told me it inspired them to make their first commit
to open source.

### [Nearly dying in Puerto Rico](http://haacked.com/archive/2015/05/14/puerto-rico/)

Ok, I didn't really almost die, but I was really really uncomfortable. I did
have a wonderful time speaking about GitHub to the Latin American audience and
exploring the old forts like I was inside Assassin's Creed Black Flag. In 2016
I'll be speaking in Peru!

### [The release of GitHub Extension for Visual Studio](http://haacked.com/archive/2015/04/30/github-in-your-visual-studio/)

This was a fun collaboration with Microsoft and represents just the beginning. We later [made it open source](http://haacked.com/archive/2015/07/20/ghfvs-oss/)! In 2016, we plan to invest a lot more time and energy into the extension to make your experience working with GitHub projects from Visual Studio better.

### DevInteresections EU

I had the pleasure to speak at DevIntersections EU in Amsterdam. It was my first time in Amsterdam and I immediately loved it. The week of the conference just happened to coincide with ADE (Amsterdam Dance Event) so there were a lot of great music events to check out. One of my favorite sites though was the library I went to with [the infamous Mr. Hanselman](hanselman.com) and a local friend of his.

### QCon SF

QCon is an international collection of conferences and I was asked to chair the
the first .NET track in a long while and second one ever. They told me that the
first one didn't go so well.

The title of the track was The Amazing Potential of .NET Open Source. I wanted
to highlight all the wonderful things happening in the .NET world in the wake
of Microsoft making a big splash on GitHub. But I also focused on talks I
thought would have crossover appeal to those who are not .NET developers.

I am eternally grateful to the speakers who accepted my invitation and
delivered a knockout track. Our track ended up being the top rated track based
on attendee voting of the conference. So I think this .NET thing still has
legs.

### Looking to 2016

I'm really looking forward to 2016. My team has a new focus to make GitHub
great for .NET developers and I can't wait to dive into that.

It's tough on my kids when I travel, so I try not to speak at too many
conferences, but there's so many good ones around these days. So far, I plan
to speak at a DevDays in Peru. I'm also hoping to return to NDC in Oslo, which
will be exciting.

Other than that, I haven't really confirmed anywhere else. Perhaps we'll throw
another .NET Fringe.
