---
layout: post
title: "Subtext 1.9.2 &quot;Shields Up&quot; Edition Released!"
date: 2006-10-25 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 18108
categories: []
---
> Making the world safe for trackbacks again!

UPDATE: A bug was reported that blog posts could not be deleted. We
have updated the release files [with a fixed
version](http://haacked.com/archive/2006/10/26/Subtext_1.9.2_Bugfix_Update.aspx "Subtext 1.9.2 Bugfix Update"). There’s
also a [quick and dirty
workaround](http://haacked.com/archive/2006/10/26/PATCH_Cannot_Delete_Posts_In_Subtext_1.9.2.aspx "Quick and Dirty Workaround"). 
You only need to apply the fix if you downloaded and installed Subtext
before this update message was posted.  See [here for
details](http://haacked.com/archive/2006/10/26/Subtext_1.9.2_Bugfix_Update.aspx "Bugfix Update").

Well it took me a little longer [than
anticipated](http://haacked.com/archive/2006/10/09/Comment_Spam_Relief_In_Subtext_Coming_Soon.aspx "Comment Spam Relief in Subtext"),
but I finally teased out the remaining show stopper bugs and put the
finishing touches on Subtext 1.9.2. If you plan on upgrading to Subtext
1.9.2, please consider reading this entire post carefully. If not, at
least **remember to backup your database and site first before
upgrading!**

What happened to 1.9.1? Long story for another time. We are skipping
from 1.9 to 1.9.2. Here is a list of releases so far just in case you
were curious. UPDATE: I had only listed the versions that required an
automatic upgrade. Here is the complete list with the ones in bold
required an automatic database update:

-   **Subtext 1.0**
-   **Subtext 1.5**
-   Subtext 1.5.1
-   Subtext 1.5.2 
-   **Subtext 1.9**
-   **Subtext 1.9.2**

As you can see, our version numbering has been a bit less than
consistent. But starting with 2.0, we should stay a bit more consistent.
With the launch of IE 7, don’t be surprised if we come out with a 1.9.3
version that just includes fixes to the skins. Volunteers for that
effort are welcome.

### New Features

The reason we call this the “Shields Up” edition is that the focus has
been on dealing with Comment Spam. I had few interesting ideas I could
not implement in time, but I did implement three key features that have
really made a huge difference in regards to comment spam, and may not
necessitate my other ideas.

#### Akismet Support

Subtext now has full integrated support for
[Akismet](http://akismet.com/ "Akismet Spam Filtering") spam filtering.
Not too long ago, I released an Akismet API so that others can use it
for spam filtering. ~~[Scott
Hanselman](http://hanselman.com/blog/ "Scott Hanselman")~~ Members of
the DasBlog team implemented it for
[DasBlog](http://dasblog.net/ "DasBlog blog engine") (in their source
control tree. Not yet released.) and has nothing but praise for it,
saying it has completely eliminated comment spam for him.

Now let me explain what I mean by full integrated support. When you
enable Akismet and are looking at approved comments in the feedback
section, if you notice something that should have been filtered as spam,
you can check it and click the *Spam* button. That will then report a
false negative to Akismet, indicating that they failed to mark this item
as spam and then move the item to the new *Trash folder*.

Likewise, if you notice an item that is flagged as spam, but should not
have been, you can check the item and click *Approve* which reports a
false positive to Akismet. By doing so, you will be training Akismet to
become more adept at filtering spam.

**Note, to enable Akismet, you must sign up for an**[**Akismet API
key**](http://akismet.com/personal/ "Akismet API Key")**and supply that
key to Subtext via the admin section**. In order to get this key, you
have to [register for a Wordpress.com user
account](http://wordpress.com/signup/ "Register for a Wordpress Account"),
whether or not you plan to use a Wordpress blog.

**Another note, Akismet may not work in Medium Trust scenarios**. So if
you host your site with a hosting provider such as GoDaddy,
WebHost4Life, etc... who run their sites in Medium trust, Akismet might
not work for you. I wrote about the [problem
here](http://haacked.com/archive/2006/10/17/Why_Oh_Why_Couldnt_WebPermission_Be_Part_Of_Medium_Trust.aspx "Medium Trust and WebPermission").

In the comments to the aforementioned post, [Scott
Watermasysk](http://scottwater.com/blog/ "Scott Watermasysk") points out
a promising approach. Have your hosting provider set up a proxy which
can be used to make requests. To that end, I did add some
`Web.config appSettings` for enabling proxy support:
`ProxyHost, ProxyPort, ProxyUsername, ProxyPassword`.

If specified, all web requests for subtext will use this proxy.

#### Invisible Captcha

Not too long ago, I released a [lightweight invisible CAPTCHA validator
control](http://haacked.com/archive/2006/09/26/Lightweight_Invisible_CAPTCHA_Validator_Control.aspx "Invisible CAPTCHA").
As far as I can tell, it has worked pretty well at keeping out automated
comment spam. But as I also warned, it did nothing to stop
Trackback/Pingback spam. Hence the need for Akismet support.

Invisible CAPTCHA is probably not necessary given the Akismet support,
but since Akismet is not enabled by default and Invisible CAPTCHA is, it
will provide some relief until you get your Akismet API key, if you so
choose.

If Invisible CAPTCHA causes problems for you for some reason, you can
turn it off for the entire site (no per-blog setting) via `Web.config`.

#### Visible CAPTCHA

Some of you twisted my arm, so I am complying. I love my users so I
gotta keep them happy. We now have support for the standard visible
CAPTCHA you know and love.

### Time Zone Fix

This topic gets its own special treatment because it is both a bug fix
and a new feature. Not too long ago I mentioned [some work I did for
DasBlog](http://haacked.com/archive/2006/10/06/TimeZones.aspx "TimeZones")
regarding daylight savings time.

Long story short, there was no way in the .NET framework to convert from
one arbitrary timezone to another. The way this manifested in Subtext is
that users who had their blog hosted in another timezone always had
incorrect timestamps on their blog posts.  This fix resolves that issue.

Previously, Subtext only stored a timezone offset for each timezone. For
example, the offset for Pacific Standard Time (PST) is -8. However that
is not accurate enough to be correct. For example, at the time of this
blog post, the offset is actually -7 because of [Daylight Savings
Time](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Daylight_saving_time "Daylight Savings Time on Wikipedia").

Likewise, choosing -7 for a timezone is not accurate because Arizona
does not observe daylight savings, but Mountain Time does. The only way
to really get this accurate is to store the actual timezone and not just
the offset. So that is what Subtext now does.

We now list every timezone (at least every one I could extract from the
Windows XP registry). There is no natural integer identifier for a
timezone, so based on a suggestion by someone at Microsoft, I used the
hash code of the timezone’s Standard Name. This is the only guaranteed
consistent unique identifier for a timezone. So when you upgrade to
1.9.2, we try and update your offset to the most likely timezone id.
Obviously, we can’t be perfect about this, **so after you upgrade, you
probably want to login and configure your blog with the correct timezone
if we chose unwisely**.

### Other Release Note Items

-   Feature
    [[1565237](https://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&aid=1565237&group_id=137896&atid=739982 "Support external CSS")]
    Support referencing External CSS
-   Feature
    [[1577073](https://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&aid=1577073&group_id=137896&atid=739982 "Flag All, Destroy All")]
    Flag All, Destroy All options
-   Fixed
    [[1584075](https://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&aid=1584075&group_id=137896&atid=739979 "Bug fix")]
    Disabling trackbacks didn’t disable trackbacks properly.

### Upgrade Instructions and Warnings

If you are upgrading from Subtext 1.5 or below, then please read this
[important note on
upgrading](http://haacked.com/archive/2006/08/31/Important_Note_On_Upgrading_to_Subtext_1.9.aspx "Important Note on Upgrading to Subtext 1.9").
Subtext 1.9.2 runs on ASP.NET 2.0, so upgrading from 1.5 and below(which
ran on ASP.NET 1.1) takes a few additional steps than normal.  As
always, don’t forget to merge your `web.config` customizations into the
new `web.config` file.

Also, for all people upgrading to 1.9.2. **The Subtext 1.9.2 upgrade
process performs a major database schema change**, moving all comments
and trackbacks into a new `subtext_Feedback` table. We’ve tested this
over and over again working out all the kinks we could find, but we
can’t guarantee that it will be 100% perfect. Thus **backup your
database first before upgrading**!

Also, as I mentioned in the previous section, after you upgrade, please
check the timezone setting in the admin section.

Lastly, in order to improve the commenting experience, we’ve added a
tiny dash of Ajax using the MagicAjax control for leaving comments on a
blog. However, this does not work well with the excellent
[ReverseDOS](http://www.angrypets.com/tools/rdos/ "Reverse DOS") because
ReverseDOS acts before the request is passed on the our code. **If you
plan on using Akismet, it is recommended that you turn off ReverseDOS
support in the `Web.config`.** In fact, the web.config file that comes
with 1.9.2 disables ReverseDOS. I’ve been in contact with the ReverseDOS
creator, [Michael Campbell](http://blog.angrypets.com/ "AngryPets"),
about these issues and he has plans to work together to address them.
But like all things, life comes first.

Even though Akismet does a great job with comment spam, I still think
ReverseDOS is worthwhile and a nice complement to Akismet. However, we
need tighter control of when ReverseDOS is triggered in the request
pipeline in order to integrate it into Subtext’s existing spam filtering
functionality.

### Download

*Ok, enough talk already, where do I download this sucker?*  The
download is hosted by SourceForge here:
[[DOWNLOAD](https://sourceforge.net/project/showfiles.php?group_id=137896&package_id=181920&release_id=458502 "Download Subtext 1.9.2 from SourceForge")]

